### What is Hashing and why we use it.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
### Searching:-
	-it is the process of the finding element in the collection.

	-* Searching Techniques:
  	  1. Linear Search
  	  2. Binary Search
  	  3. Hashing

 * Hashing is a searching algorithm based on hashcode which is used to search element in constant time.
 * Hashcode is logical integer number that can be generated by procecessing state of the object/instance.
 * Hashing uses hashing is a best searching technique with worst case time complexity O(1).
   by using best has function  along with best collision resolution technique.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
### How hashMap works internally :-

 * map.put("Rohit", 19); (Rohit key and 19 is value).

### hashCode
* It is non final and native method of java.lang.Object class.
* Syntax:
    public int hashCode( );
 
 * public static int getHashCode( String element )
	{
    		int result = 1;
    		final int PRIME = 37;
    		result = result * element + PRIME * element;
   	     return result;
	}

* for Rohit (key) we get 2657860 is the hashcode.

* Hashcode is required to generate index. In hashing index is called slot.

* Calculating Index :-
   - Index minimizes the size of the array. The Formula for calculating the index is:
   - Index = hashcode(Key) & (n-1).
   - Index = 2657860 & (16-1) = 4 .
   - The value 4 is the computed index value where the Key and value will store in HashMap.
   - It uses an array and LinkedList data structure internally for storing Key and Value. There are four fields in    		HashMap.(hashcode,key,value,next).
  Bucket
   - 0
   - 1
   - 2
   - 3
   - 4--->2657860(hashcode)
   - 5	Rohit  (key)
   - 6	19     (value)
   - 7	next   (pointer to next node).
   - 8
   - 9
   - 10
   - 11
   - 12
   - 13
   - 14
   - 15


* If state of object is same then we get same hashcode.
 
  - int x = 15; //Hashcode is 570
  - int y = 15; //Hashcode is 570

* By processing hashcode of object if we get same slot then it is called collision.
* Consider case I

	int x = 239;    //Hashcode : 9082;  --> Slot : 3 --> Collision
	int y = 358;    //Hashcode : 13604  --> Slot : 3 --> Collision
```
* Consider case II

	int x = 15; //Hashcode is 570   --> Slot : 3 --> Collision
	int y = 15; //Hashcode is 570   --> Slot : 3 --> Collision



* To store the Key in memory, we have to calculate the index.


----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
### get() method in HashMap :-
* get() method is used to get the value by its Key. It will not fetch the value if you don't know the Key. When 	     	get(K Key) method is called, it calculates the hash code of the Key.
* lets we have key as rohit.
* It generates the hash code as 2657860. Now calculate the index value of 2657860 by using index formula. 
* The index value will be 4, as we have calculated above. 
* get() method search for the index value 4.
* It compares the first element Key with the given Key.
* If both keys are equal, then it returns the value else check for the next element in the node if it exists.
* In our scenario, it is found as the first element of the node and return the value 19.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------s
###  why Are immutable objects (other than String like Integer and other wrapper classes etc.) good for hashmap keys? 

* String, Integer and other wrapper classes are natural candidates of HashMap key.
* String is most frequently used key as well because String is immutable and final,and overrides equals and  			hashcode()  method.
* If immutable, the object's hashcode wont change and it allows caching the hashcode of different keys which makes
   the overall retrieval process very fast.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
